So, I have to admit, many people who are actively working for the Navy
don't really know how they fit into the big picture and that's by design.
It's very specialized. So, for instance, as an E1, E2, E3, your
whole entire world is to do this technical job, to fix a pump, to
paint this wall and you might not see it but making sure that pump
is fixed or making sure that wall is painted, makes sure that the ship
can run. Making sure that the ship can run, make sure that the officer
can fly a jet, making sure that that jet is fixed and that pilot
knows his information, make sure that he can drop this bomb, making
sure that bomb drops, make sure that the battle is won, making sure
that the battle is won, make sure the war is won. So, when you are
painting that wall, you don't really see how that is actually helping
you win the war in Afghanistan but it does. So, the higher you get
in your enlisted pay grade, the more you see that big picture. I'm
an E7, so my responsibility is to know how this unit can help the
civilians, make sure that this aircraft carrier runs fine and I think
as officers, the higher you get, if you're a captain, you make sure
that this aircraft carrier fits in this realm of the region so that,
like we have power over there, we can dominate our foes. So, it depends
on your pay grade.